# Person-Detection-using-HOG
Overview: You need to implement a person detection algorithm. You are provided with a dataset of images with persons. You need to use this dataset to prepare person and no-person data that can be used to train a classifier. Once you prepare the data, you will extract the HOG features from each of the images and use it to train an SVM classifier and report classification accuracy. Finally, you need to test your classifier on test images using a sliding window approach.
Data Preparation:
Step 1: Download the person dataset from the shared location. The dataset contains two folders ‘PNGImages’, and ‘PedMasks’.
Step 2: Use mask images to find the pixels corresponding to each persons, and use this information to draw a bounding box around each person. We will discuss how to do this step in the class. You don’t need to show the image after drawing the bounding box, but this step would be important to understand whether you are drawing the bounding box correctly.
Step 3: Once you found the bounding boxes around the persons, you can crop the images, resize the cropped images to 128x64 size images, and save them in a folder. These cropped-resized images can be used for HOG feature extraction.
Step 4: Next, you need to create no-person data set with image patches that do not contain any person. You can approach it in two ways. Find patches from image locations where there is no person present in images of the dataset uploaded. Otherwise, you can find a dataset that does not contain persons and use any patch from that image. The number of no-person patches should be ideally equal to the number of person patches you generated in step 3. Remember to resize these patches to 128x64.
Classifier Testing:
Step 1: Given a test image, you need to move a sliding window across the image, from left to right and top to bottom. For each location of the window, you need to crop the image patch inside the window, resize it to 128x64 resolution, extract the HOG feature vector and pass it to your trained classifier. Depending on whether your classifier detects a person for a window location, you need to draw a box on the image. Finally, show all the detected persons on the image. During the scheduled final examination, you will be provided with a test image. You need to run your algorithm on the test image to generate the result (as the example result shown below).
